DATA_COLLECTION.md, before:

# Important Disclosure re: Hummingbot Data Collection
 
Hummingbot (“Hummingbot”) is open-source software developed and maintained by CoinAlpha, Inc. (“CoinAlpha”, “we”, or “us”) and available at https://github.com/coinalpha/hummingbot.

CoinAlpha collects certain usage information from Users that have configured Hummingbot to allow for the sharing of this data.

## Purpose of data collection

### Software improvement

Data collected by CoinAlpha is used to help improve Hummingbot for all users. It is important that our team understands the usage patterns and detects bugs as soon as possible, so we can best decide how to design future features and prioritize current work.

### Support

Users who provide data allow us to more easily diagnose problems, troubleshoot, and resolve any issues encountered when running Hummingbot.

## Types of data collected

Hummingbot can collect error logs and report them to CoinAlpha.
Hummingbot can collect aggregate trade data including volume totals, order count, trade count (not individual trades), tokens traded (base & quote), and exchange(s) used.
Hummingbot can collect client data including software version, installation type (binary, source, Docker), O/S, and a random unique instance ID. The instance ID is a randomly generated number and does not identify the user in any way.

All data collected will be used exclusively by the Hummingbot team for analytical and marketing purposes only. The data will be neither accessible nor sold to any third party.

***Note***: *Users using Hummingbot to participate in any [Liquidity Mining Campaigns](https://docs.hummingbot.io/liquidity-mining/campaigns/) may separately be subject to additional [data collection terms](https://hummingbot.io/liquidity-mining-policy/).*

## Sensitive data

Hummingbot will never collect and/or report sensitive information, such as private keys, API keys, or passwords.

## How do I opt-in to or opt-out of data sharing?

From the Hummingbot client, run the command `config heatbeat_enabled` and set to `False` to disable all data reporting. Trade data and client data configurations are saved in the `conf_global.yml` file in the base directory of the client.

## How this data is used

When enabled by a user, data is reported by Hummingbot to CoinAlpha. CoinAlpha uses its own systems as well as commercial software (such as Datadog Inc.) to collect and process data.

Commit message:

(doc) update type of data collected

DATA_COLLECTION.md, after:

# Important Disclosure re: Hummingbot Data Collection
 
Hummingbot (“Hummingbot”) is open-source software developed and maintained by CoinAlpha, Inc. (“CoinAlpha”, “we”, or “us”) and available at https://github.com/coinalpha/hummingbot.

CoinAlpha collects certain usage information from Users that have configured Hummingbot to allow for the sharing of this data.

## Purpose of data collection

### Software improvement

Data collected by CoinAlpha is used to help improve Hummingbot for all users. It is important that our team understands the usage patterns and detects bugs as soon as possible, so we can best decide how to design future features and prioritize current work.

### Support

Users who provide data allow us to more easily diagnose problems, troubleshoot, and resolve any issues encountered when running Hummingbot.

## Types of data collected

Hummingbot aggregates and collects total traded volume per exchange denominated in USDT. The data collected is subsequently reported to CoinAlpha's backend services.

All data collected will be used exclusively by the Hummingbot team for analytical and marketing purposes only. The data will be neither accessible nor sold to any third party.

***Note***: *Users using Hummingbot to participate in any [Liquidity Mining Campaigns](https://docs.hummingbot.io/liquidity-mining/campaigns/) may separately be subject to additional [data collection terms](https://hummingbot.io/liquidity-mining-policy/).*

## Sensitive data

Hummingbot will never collect and/or report sensitive information, such as private keys, API keys, or passwords.

## How do I opt-in to or opt-out of data sharing?

From the Hummingbot client, run the command `config heatbeat_enabled` and set to `False` to disable all data reporting. Trade data and client data configurations are saved in the `conf_global.yml` file in the base directory of the client.

## How this data is used

When enabled by a user, data is reported by Hummingbot to CoinAlpha. CoinAlpha uses its own systems as well as commercial software (such as Datadog Inc.) to collect and process data.
